As Arcade games go, Zaxxon by SEGA remains
milestone in gaming history thanks to its
many firsts - not the least of which was the
introduction of 'axonometric projections'
to create a sort-of holographic 3D effect.
Thankfully it's 2012 now and 3D effects are
the least of our worries, so SEGA have dug
up their classic title to give it Temple Run-like
shake-up.
It's here that things start to feel a bit
worrying - avoiding hazards has always been
a staple in the original isometric shoot'em-up,
forcing players to balance their efforts between
evasion and offense.
Zaxxon Escape pulls the plug on the second
half, reducing combat to the occasional tap
to blow up barriers, an enemy or two, and
power-ups.
As for the rest of the controls?
I hope you like flipping your iDevice.
Tilting can be a wonderful way of giving the
player a visceral way to engage with the game
in front of them - at first this is also true
of Zaxxon as you twist your iDevice to rotate
the ship you're flying.
However, obstacles regularly force (or at
least strongly nudge) you towards rotating
your device completely, forcing you to juggle
it between your hands - one fumble and you
might be explaining why your screen is cracked
to someone at an Apple store.
One thing Zaxxon Escape doesn't fumble is
the presentation - story-wise you've just
blown up a massive space station and now you're
making your exit before being engulfed in
flames.
The sprawling and varied designs of the station
make for great eye-candy, especially when
ducking and weaving through obstacles - in
this regard its design feels flawless.
However, ultimately the game is just another
Temple Run title, complete with swipe-based
path selection.
Upgrades cover the same basics as well, though
the amount of coins you can earn in a single
run is limited, making the initial purchase
feel altogether too harsh as you grind to
make any serious progress.
In the end it comes down to whether you don't
mind flipping your iDevice to play a spaceship-themed
version of a game you probably already own.